README.md, before:

# JavaForger

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/daanvdh/JavaForger.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/daanvdh/JavaForger)

JavaForger can create source code from templates using existing java classes as input. 
It reads field, methods and other class data to fill in variables in a template. 
JavaForger includes default templates for generic java code like equals, hashCode, innerBuilders and unit tests for them. 
Custom templates can be created for repetative code that is project specific. 
JavaForger is able to directly insert source code into existing classes. 

## Example
Let's say we have a class as given as below: 
	
	public class MyClass {
	  int number; 
	  String name; 
	}
	
Then calling the following code from a main class: 
	
	JavaForger.execute(DefaultConfigurations.forEquals(), "AbsolutePathTo/MyClass.java");
	
Will result in the following class:
	
	public class MyClass {
	  int number; 
	  String name; 
	
	  @Override
	  public boolean equals(Object obj) {
	    return new EqualsBuilder()
	      .append(number, other.number)
	      .append(name, other.name)
	      .isEquals();
	  }
	}
	
JavaForger requires a JavaForgerConfiguration as input together with a path to the class to use as input. 
The configuration contains the template and settings for parsing the input, processing the template and merging it to a destination class. 
The DefaultConfigurations class contains default configurations for all templates included in the project. 
A JavaForgerConfiguration can also contain child configurations, for instance DefaultConfigurations.forBuilderAndTest() has a child configuration for creating a unit test for the builder. 
That child configuration will be executed after the root configuration. 
By default the generated code for the test will be merged to the class: 'src/test/java/<custom-path>/<input-class-name>Test.java'. 
If that file does not exist, an FileNotFoundException will be thrown. 

## Setup 

The project is currently not yet in the maven repository, so for now you have to clone the project and run 'mvn clean install' from the command line in the project folder. 
Then add the dependency below to the pom of your project. 

	<dependency>
	  <groupId>com.github.javaforger</groupId>
	  <artifactId>JavaForger</artifactId>
	  <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
	</dependency>

## Settings and Dependencies 
	
This project depends on the open source template engine [FreeMarker](https://freemarker.apache.org/) for processing templates. 
Settings for executing templates with FreeMarker can be set via JavaForgerConfiguration::setFreeMarkerConfiguration. 
For processing templates FreeMarker receives a hashmap of String to Object as input. 
The string can be used inside a template to access data within the object. 
Custom parameters can be added via JavaForgerConfiguration::setInputParameters. 
Documentation on template settings and syntax can be found at [freemarker.apache.org](https://freemarker.apache.org/)
	
JavaForger depends on the open source project [JavaParser](https://github.com/javaparser/javaparser/) for reading input java classes and later inserting code into classes. 
The hashmap with input parameters is filled with the keys 'fields', 'methods' and 'class'.
The fields and methods include data like type, name and annotations which can be accessed directly from a template. 
The class contains used interfaces and extended classes. 
It is possible to make changes to the parsed data via JavaForgerConfiguration::addParameterAdjusters. 
This method receives a Consumer that accepts the hashmap with parameters. 
Inside the consumer the parameters can be changed, for instance to filter out static fields before creating a builder (e.g. DefaultAdjusters::removeStaticFields). 
The class to merge with can be changed via JavaForgerConfiguration::setMergeClass receiving the absolute path to the merge class. 
You can set the class to merge with via a provider using JavaForgerConfiguration::setMergeClassProvider. 
The provider receives either the input class path or the merged class of the parent configuration and uses that path to determine the next class path. 
An example of a merge class provider can be found in MergeClassProvider::forMavenUnitTest.

## Custom Templates

For writing custom templates you first have to set a custom template location. 
Note that with that settting it is not possible anymore to access the custom templates, this will be possible in a future version. 
Setting the custom template location can be done as follows: 
	
	Configuration freeMarkerConfig = FreeMarkerConfiguration.getDefaultConfig();
	freeMarkerConfig.setDirectoryForTemplateLoading(new File("src\\main\\resources\\templates"));
	JavaForgerConfiguration.builder().withFreeMarkerConfiguration(freeMarkerConfig).withTemplate("equals.javat").withMergeClassProvider(new MergeClassProvider()).build(); 

We can define a template called "equals.javat" as given below. 
We can see that we access the fields parsed from an input class in a loop, where we use the name of each field to construct the EqualsBuilder. 
The currently supported classes containing the parsed data are: VariableDefinition, ClassDefinition and MethodDefinition. 
	
	@Override
	public boolean equals(Object obj) {
	  return new EqualsBuilder()
	<#list fields as field>
	    .append(${field.name}, other.${field.name})
	</#list>
	    .isEquals();
	}
    
## Roadmap

- Improving the code merger so that a user can configure where and how code will be inserted. 
- Automatically determining required imports for types coming from the input class so that these can be added to the merge class. 
- Improve generation of test input data so that every value is unique for the whole test. 
- Create eclipse plugin to execute customly created templates without having to specify the input class manually. 
- Automatically format java classes after inserting code.
- Create data flow graph for simple methods to be able to generate unit test code. 

## License

JavaForger is available under the terms of the Apache License. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Commit message:

Add documentation for supported variables and change TypeDefinition.type to StringConverter

README.md, after:

# JavaForger

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/daanvdh/JavaForger.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/daanvdh/JavaForger)

JavaForger can create source code from templates using existing java classes as input. 
It reads field, methods and other class data to fill in variables in a template. 
JavaForger includes default templates for generic java code like equals, hashCode, innerBuilders and unit tests for them. 
Custom templates can be created for repetative code that is project specific. 
JavaForger is able to directly insert source code into existing classes. 

## Example
Let's say we have a class as given as below: 
	
	public class MyClass {
	  int number; 
	  String name; 
	}
	
Then calling the following code from a main class: 
	
	JavaForger.execute(DefaultConfigurations.forEquals(), "AbsolutePathTo/MyClass.java");
	
Will result in the following class:
	
	public class MyClass {
	  int number; 
	  String name; 
	
	  @Override
	  public boolean equals(Object obj) {
	    return new EqualsBuilder()
	      .append(number, other.number)
	      .append(name, other.name)
	      .isEquals();
	  }
	}
	
JavaForger requires a JavaForgerConfiguration as input together with a path to the class to use as input. 
The configuration contains the template and settings for parsing the input, processing the template and merging it to a destination class. 
The DefaultConfigurations class contains default configurations for all templates included in the project. 
A JavaForgerConfiguration can also contain child configurations, for instance DefaultConfigurations.forBuilderAndTest() has a child configuration for creating a unit test for the builder. 
That child configuration will be executed after the root configuration. 
By default the generated code for the test will be merged to the class: 'src/test/java/<custom-path>/<input-class-name>Test.java'. 
If that file does not exist, an FileNotFoundException will be thrown. 

## Setup 

The project is currently not yet in the maven repository, so for now you have to clone the project and run 'mvn clean install' from the command line in the project folder. 
Then add the dependency below to the pom of your project. 

	<dependency>
	  <groupId>com.github.javaforger</groupId>
	  <artifactId>JavaForger</artifactId>
	  <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
	</dependency>

## Settings and Dependencies 
	
This project depends on the open source template engine [FreeMarker](https://freemarker.apache.org/) for processing templates. 
Settings for executing templates with FreeMarker can be set via JavaForgerConfiguration::setFreeMarkerConfiguration. 
For processing templates FreeMarker receives a hashmap of String to Object as input. 
The string can be used inside a template to access data within the object. 
Custom parameters can be added via JavaForgerConfiguration::setInputParameters. 
Documentation on template settings and syntax can be found at [freemarker.apache.org](https://freemarker.apache.org/)
	
JavaForger depends on the open source project [JavaParser](https://github.com/javaparser/javaparser/) for reading input java classes and later inserting code into classes. 
The hashmap with input parameters is filled with the keys 'fields', 'methods' and 'class'.
The fields and methods include data like type, name and annotations which can be accessed directly from a template. 
The class contains used interfaces and extended classes. 
It is possible to make changes to the parsed data via JavaForgerConfiguration::addParameterAdjusters. 
This method receives a Consumer that accepts the hashmap with parameters. 
Inside the consumer the parameters can be changed, for instance to filter out static fields before creating a builder (e.g. DefaultAdjusters::removeStaticFields). 
The class to merge with can be changed via JavaForgerConfiguration::setMergeClass receiving the absolute path to the merge class. 
You can set the class to merge with via a provider using JavaForgerConfiguration::setMergeClassProvider. 
The provider receives either the input class path or the merged class of the parent configuration and uses that path to determine the next class path. 
An example of a merge class provider can be found in MergeClassProvider::forMavenUnitTest.

## Custom Templates

For writing custom templates you first have to set a custom template location. 
Note that with that settting it is not possible anymore to access the custom templates, this will be possible in a future version. 
Setting the custom template location can be done as follows: 
	
	Configuration freeMarkerConfig = FreeMarkerConfiguration.getDefaultConfig();
	freeMarkerConfig.setDirectoryForTemplateLoading(new File("src\\main\\resources\\templates"));
	JavaForgerConfiguration.builder().withFreeMarkerConfiguration(freeMarkerConfig).withTemplate("equals.javat").withMergeClassProvider(new MergeClassProvider()).build(); 

We can define a template called "equals.javat" as given below. 
We can see that we access the fields parsed from an input class in a loop, where we use the name of each field to construct the EqualsBuilder. 
The currently supported variables are described in [TemplateVariables.md](TemplateVariables.md). 
	
	@Override
	public boolean equals(Object obj) {
	  return new EqualsBuilder()
	<#list fields as field>
	    .append(${field.name}, other.${field.name})
	</#list>
	    .isEquals();
	}
    
## Roadmap

- Improving the code merger so that a user can configure where and how code will be inserted. 
- Automatically determining required imports for types coming from the input class so that these can be added to the merge class. 
- Improve generation of test input data so that every value is unique for the whole test. 
- Create eclipse plugin to execute customly created templates without having to specify the input class manually. 
- Automatically format java classes after inserting code.
- Create data flow graph for simple methods to be able to generate unit test code. 

## License

JavaForger is available under the terms of the Apache License. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
